# September 2019 2.0 (Preview Release)
_Azure Virtual Datacenter Toolkit_

The **September 2019** preview release represents a major change for the toolkit. 
There are numerous breaking changes and hence we incrementing the major version to 2.

We have revisited our core [design princilpes]() and this lead to significant architectural changes.

At a high level, these include:

- Using [Azure DevOps]() as the default for orchestrating a deployment using [YAML pipelines][]
- Reducing the use of custom code and constructs
    - [Modules][] can now be deployed without any custom code
- Promoting [_Landing Zone_]() as a core pattern
- Improving auditability of deployments

NOTE: 
The toolkit is in _preview_. 
The approach of the toolkit is based on work with our customers, but the specific implementation of this release is not production-ready.

## General changes

* The toolkit now uses [PowerShell Core 6.2][] with [Az PowerShell][] modules.
* There is _no longer any Python scripts_ beginning with this release
* [Modules][] are deployment engine agnostic. 
    - You don't have to use anything proprietary to deploy a module.
    - Modules consist of templates and parameters that can be deployed just like any other Azure Resource Manager template.

## Known Issues

* Lack of documentation

[Modules]: ../../Modules
[YAML pipelines]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/stages?view=azure-devops&tabs=yaml
[PowerShell Core 6.2]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/whats-new/what-s-new-in-powershell-core-62?view=powershell-6
[Az PowerShell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-az-ps?view=azps-2.5.0